abnormality	Noun. Something that is unusual in an unwelcome or problematic way. E.g. Mozilla detected a serious abnormality in its internal data.
add-on		Noun. A firefox-specific umbrella term that describes tools (including extensions and themes) that users can install to modify, customize, and extend the functionality of firefox. avoid using "add-ons" and "extensions" interchangeably (see https://wiki.mozilla.org/add-ons/terminology#usage_guidelines). E.g. Your add-ons and customizations have been removed and your browser settings have been restored to their defaults.
aggregate	Noun. Total of individual parts. E.g. We encourage users to visualize the state of tracking as an aggregate.
aggregate	Adjective. Formed by the total of individual parts. E.g. Generating aggregate reports.
All Hands 	Noun. All moco and mofo staffers plus key volunteers - also sometimes the all-mofo meetings that happen before the moco work weeks.
alternate text	Noun. Text added to an html element (typically an image) to describe that element when it cannot be rendered. also used by accessibility tools, like screen readers, to make non-textual elements accessible. E.g. If the image is relevant to the content of the document, you must supply alternate text that will appear in text-only browsers.
appear	Verb. 1. to come into sight; become visible or noticeable 2. to seem or give the impression of being. E.g. Choose the alternative search engines that appear below the address bar; the add-on downloaded from this site could not be installed because it appears to be corrupt.
appearance	Noun. The way that something looks. E.g. Modify the appearance and importance of tags using the settings below.
attack	Verb. To take malicious action against, specifically via hacking and malware. E.g. These pages try to install programs that steal private information, use your computer to attack others, or damage your system.
attacker	Noun. An individual or entity that seeks to gain unauthorized access to user data. E.g. An attacker could easily reveal information which you thought to be safe.
Attack Site	Noun. A site designed to attack a user's client browser using malware or hacking. E.g. Reported attack site!.
attendee	Noun. A person who is invited to attend an event, specifically via a calendar invitation. E.g. This option sends one invitation email per attendee.
authenticate	Verb.	To prove user identity, typically to gain access to a system or service. E.g. The endpoint you are connecting to needs more information to authenticate this connection.
authenticated	Adjective. User identity has been proven for access to a system or service. E.g. Warning: contains unauthenticated content.
autoplay	Noun. A functionality that allows media, like video or audio, to play automatically with sound, without action from a user. E.g. You have blocked autoplay media with sound for this website.
back out	Verb. If a code change (to firefox or anywhere else) goes badly, it may be "backed out", meaning the change is undone. sometimes several changes will be backed out at once, if it's unclear which one cause the problem.
black box	Verb. To disable breakpoints (execution stop points) of a source code. E.g. The following sources were black boxed.
bookmark	Noun. A shortcut created by the user to direct the browser to a specific webpage. E.g. Bookmarks you add will still be saved on your device.
bookmark	Verb. Create a shortcut that directs the browser to a specific webpage. shortcuts may be added to the bookmark toolbar. similar in functionality to "favorites" in chrome and internet explorer, and "bookmarks" in safari. E.g. Bookmark this page.
boolean	Adjective. A logical data type with only two possible values: true or false. E.g. Toggles the boolean preference specified by input.
boot	Verb. Remove a user from an online space. E.g. You have been booted from the chatroom.
breakpoint	Noun. Intentional stop point in the code of a computer program. E.g. Resumes the main thread and continues execution following a breakpoint until the next breakpoint or the termination of the script.
Bug report	Noun. The detailed description accompanying a bug or the act of reporting the bug itself. (sometimes just called bug).
certificate authority	Noun. A trusted organization that issues signed digital certificates that verify the identity and legitimacy of a company or individual. E.g. The certificate used to sign the message was issued by an unknown certificate authority.
channel	Noun. Refers to milestone build stages of firefox (for example: beta, nightly, dev edition, release, esr- extended support release). channels are fixed mechanisms through which we publish the different versions of firefox. E.g. You are currently on the firefox release channel.
cipher	Noun. An algorithm that encrypts or decrypts information. E.g. The cipher used for encryption is deprecated and insecure.
clipboard	Noun. A special location in the computer's operating system that is accessible to all programs and temporarily stores data that the user has copied from somewhere else. E.g. Copy text to clipboard.
clockwise	Adverb. Move in the same direction as the rotating hands of a clock. E.g. Rotate clockwise.
compact	Adjective. Occupying little space compared with others of its same type. E.g. Choose a compact theme to make more room for tabbed browsing.
compact - recommend deprioritize	Verb. Pack or unite closely together. E.g. Doing a full compacting garbage collection as an attempt to free up memory for the allocation.
context	Noun. The setting or circumstance in which a thing occurs, often associated with the context menu. this term can assume specific connotations when referring to programming languages, for example in javascript a context is a reference to the object running the currently executing code. E.g. A geolocation request can only be fulfilled in a secure context.this scratchpad executes in the browser context.
contribute	Verb. Give time, talents, or skills as part of a larger whole. E.g. Contribute to the development of this add-on.
contribute	Verb. Give a tangible object as part of a larger whole. E.g. Contribute {n} dollars to the cause.
corrupt	Adjective. Containing errors or alterations from its original, correct form. E.g. This add-on could not be installed because it appears to be corrupt.
corrupt	Verb. Change something from its original, correct form. E.g. The response from the ocsp server was corrupted or improperly formed.
corrupted	Adjective. Changed from its original, correct form. E.g. Invalid or corrupted pdf file.
counterclockwise	Adverb. Move in the direction opposite to the rotating hands of a clock. E.g. Rotate counterclockwise.
cryptominer	Noun. Scripts on websites that can use a computer’s resources to mine cryptocurrency without a user’s knowledge. E.g. Cryptominers use your system’s computing power to mine digital money. cryptomining scripts drain your battery, slow down your computer, and can increase your energy bill.
cryptomining	Noun. A method of running scripts on websites that can use a computer’s resources to mine cryptocurrency without a user’s knowledge.
debug	Verb. Identify and remove errors from computer sofware. E.g. Turning this on will allow you to debug add-ons.
deceptive site	Noun. A malicious website that impersonates a legitimate one in order to trick users into providing sensitive information such as passwords, account details, or credit card numbers. E.g. This web page has been reported as a deceptive site and has been blocked.
decode	Verb. Translating date or information that has been encoded back into its original, comprehensible format. E.g. Media resource could not be decoded.
Resource Terminology•common
decryption	Noun. The process of converting information or data back to its original form or text so that it can be read and understood; the process of reversing encryption. E.g. Widevine content decryption module provided by google inc.
disinformation	Noun. False, inaccurate, or misleading information designed, presented, and promoted to intentionally cause public harm or for profit. when it’s shared mistakenly by people, it becomes misinformation. see also the definition of misinformation. E.g. Political actors use disinformation campaigns that prey on our emotions and values to manipulate our behaviour.
distrust	Verb. Regard something as untrustworthy or doubt its authenticity. E.g. If you delete or distrust a certificate authority (ca) certificate, this application will no longer trust any certificates issued by that ca.
eavesdropping	Verb. Refuse to allow; to deny permission. E.g. Firefox prevented this page from loading in this way because the page has a content security policy that disallows it.
enable	Verb. Activate a feature. E.g. You cannot enable this filter.
encode	Verb. Transforming data using a standard format or particular code so that it can be properly (and safely) consumed by a different type of system. the goal with encoding is to ensure that information can be properly consumed—this is different from "encyption," for which the goal is to keep information secret and safe from unauthorized access. E.g. Check that the file, including symbols and accented letters, is encoded using the utf-8 character encoding.
encrypt	Verb. Convert information or data into a code, especially to prevent unauthorized access. this is different from "encoding" in which the goal is to ensure that information can be properly consumed. E.g. Encrypt this message.
encryption	Noun. The process of encoding information or data so that only the sender and the intended recipient can read it. E.g. Your connection to this website uses weak encryption and is not private.
end user	Noun. The person who ultimately uses or is intended to use a product. E.g. Request on the main thread is deprecated because of its detrimental effects to the end user.
Enhanced Tracking Protection	Noun. Enhanced tracking protection is a collection of firefox privacy and security settings. these settings block invisible or visible parts of webpages that can track users online. enhanced tracking protection keeps an individual’s browsing history more private to reduce how much of their data is tracked, stored, and shared between websites and advertisers. E.g. Enhanced tracking protection is on for this site.
executable file	Noun. A file in a format that enables it to be loaded into memory and executed by the operating system. E.g. Executable files may contain viruses or other malicious code.
extension	Noun. Pieces of code that extend the capabilities of a browser. in firefox, extensions are a type of add-on. E.g. This page is loaded from an extension.
external	Adjective. Acting or coming from the outside. E.g. An external application must be launched to handle javascript.
Fellow	Noun. Web activists, open-source researchers and scientists, engineers, and technology policy experts who receive a stipen from mozilla to support their work on the front lines of the internet health movement. E.g. Mozilla fellows are working to stop the spread of misinformation, put individuals in control of their data, keep artificial intelligence accountable, and provide innovative solutions for internet connectivity in low penetration environments.
filter bubble	Noun. A situation in which an internet user encounters only information and opinions that conform to and reinforce their own beliefs, caused by algorithms that personalize an individual’s online experience. E.g. Fake news and filter bubbles are making it harder for us to find our way.
fingerprinter	Noun. A fingerprinter is an entity that gathers information about browser users from configuration and settings information that is visible to websites they browse, rather than traditional tracking methods such as ip addresses and unique cookies. E.g. Fingerprinters collect settings from your browser and computer to create a profile of you. using this digital fingerprint, they can track you across different websites.
fingerprinting	Noun. Fingerprinting is a method of tracking browser users by the configuration and settings information that is visible to websites they browse, rather than traditional tracking methods such as ip addresses and unique cookies.
gear	Noun. Items given to participants by mozilla such as t-shirts and stickers. E.g. Official mozilla gear is here.
grassroots	Adjective. A campaign or movement that’s led directly by the people in a community. E.g. Use market-leading research to deliver powerful grassroots-led campaigns.
home page	Noun. The default page that loads when you visit a website. in firefox, the "home page" is also the default page displayed when you open the browser or open a new tab. E.g. Do you want this document to be your new home page?.
idle	Adjective. Inactive; not in use. E.g. The worker was idle for a relatively long time.
import	Verb. Copy or move data from one program to another, including importing data from an external source (for example, bookmarks). E.g. Select which items to import.
innovations	Noun. Unique features developed for firefox. E.g. Explore some of our latest innovations.
insecure	Adjective. Potentially unsafe or not protected. E.g. Firefox has detected an insecure site. form autofill is temporarily disabled.
installation	Noun. To set something up for use (most often referring to software installation). when talking about an installation of firefox, we refer to where software is installed on a device, regardless of what version of software is installed. the software’s location in the file system defines that installation. a user may have multiple installations of firefox—each a different version of firefox— or even multiple installations that are all the same version of firefox. E.g. A restart of your computer may be required to complete the installation. -or- this setting will apply to all windows accounts and firefox profiles using this installation of firefox.
Issue	Verb. To put forth officially. the verb form of "issue" is most commonly used in reference to security certifcates. use "issued," rather than alternate verbs like "created," when referring to security certificates. E.g. The certificate used to sign the message was issued by a certificate authority whose own certificate has expired.
L10n	Noun. Localization is the translation of mozilla products to various languages.
Resource Terminology•common
Legacy extension	Noun. A firefox extension built using legacy apis or the add-on sdk. these kinds of extensions were disabled as of firefox 57. E.g. This is a legacy extension, be aware that these are no longer fully supported.
MDN	Noun. Mozilla developer network - online resource for web developers; lives at.
misinformation	Noun. False or misleading information (also known as disinformation) presented as truth that’s shared mistakenly by people who are unaware that it’s false.see also the definition of disinformation. E.g. We're campaigning to get big tech platforms like google, facebook and twitter to become more transparent about how political messages are spread so that we can detect and stop misinformation.
native	Adjective. Local software and applications. E.g. They can’t access the device’s underlying capabilities the way that native apps can.
open source	Adjective. Refers to any program whose source code is made available for use or modification. E.g. These terms are not intended to limit any rights granted under open source licenses.
override	Verb. Replace or overrule. E.g. Override the colors specified by the page with your selections.
participation	Noun. The participation team works to make people participate in mozilla programs. E.g. Mozilla achieves success by helping more people make choices about what software they want to use what level of participation they would like to have online.
Patch	Noun. A specific code contribution by programmers submitted as a text file.
pop-up	Noun. An overlapping window used for dialog boxes, message boxes, and other temporary windows that appear outside of an application's primary window. typically, users will think of a "pop-up" as a window that opens automatically and without being asked. E.g. You have blocked pop-ups for this website.
preference	Noun. Custom settings within a software application. E.g. You can manage your profile and preferences.
release	Noun. Made available for use or distribution; also refers to the final, stable build of firefox. E.g. The security certificate in use on this website will no longer be trusted in a future release.
report	Noun. A detailed record or account, most often in the case of a site crash or issue. E.g. Send a crash report for the tab you are viewing.
report	Verb. Tell or alert, most often in the case of a site crash or issue. E.g. Report errors like this to help mozilla identify and block malicious sites.
revert	Verb. Return to previous stage. E.g. Revert bookmarks; do you want to revert the changes you made to this scratchpad?.
search suggestion	Noun. A related search term suggested by a search engine. E.g. Search suggestions will not be shown in location bar results.
security keys	Noun. In firefox the term security key refers specifically to a physical device that allows a user to authenticate, like a yubikey. this is a standard definition that our security engineering team has arrived at with teams from chrome and safari. E.g. %s wants to register an account with one of your security keys. you can connect and authorize one now, or cancel.
sensitive	Adjective. Requiring caution or additional care, especially referring to data that must be protected to safeguard the privacy or security of an individual or organization. E.g. As a security precaution, the browser does not automatically re-request sensitive documents.
sidebar	Noun. A pane that is displayed on either side of the firefox browser window, next to the web page. includes the the user's bookmarks, history, and synced tabs. E.g. Load this bookmark in the sidebar.
sign	Verb. To issue a digital certificate as verification of a website's identity; or, to enter user credentials to access a system. E.g. Sign in to sync your tabs, bookmarks, logins.
signer	Noun. The entity that signs a digital certificate verifying the identity of a website, organization, or individual. E.g. The signer's certificate could not be found.
studies	Noun. Internal mechanism for an add-on enabled study. instead, localize the term “study” so folks understand their data is being studied (they don’t need to understand the mechanism behind it). learn more: https://wiki.mozilla.org/firefox/shield/shield_studiesblacklist “shield study” and instead suggest localizers use “study.” avoid using shield externally. don’t add “study” to the actual terms list. in english, use the word “studies” (see about:studies to see if enrolled in a study cohort. url not translated. ). E.g. We are running a series of studies in nightly. all nightly users will receive a notification about these studies. when a study is active, nightly firefox will automatically use cloudflare’s 1.1.1.1 secure dns over https. the first study will use the cloudflare resolver in addition to the dns selected by a user or their isp to compare approaches.
track	Verb. To identify and collect information about website users. can be conducted by websites themselves or third parties, such as advertisers. may also refer to the practice of tracking a user’s browsing behavior and gathering information about their devices to build a unique profile about that individual. E.g. Block third-party content that tracks you around the web. control how much of your online activity gets stored and shared between websites.
trackers	Noun. Trackers are cookies, widgets, or invisible snippets of code used to monitor someone’s browsing history. websites use trackers to gather analytics and statistics. third-party trackers collect and send data about visited websites to other companies, often for advertising purposes. advertisers use third-party trackers to show users personalized content and targeted ads. E.g. Blocking trackers and cookies can cause some websites to break.
Tracking Content	Noun. Tracking code hidden in ads, videos, and other in-page content. blocking them can cause some websites to break. E.g. Websites may load external ads, videos, and other content that contain tracking code. blocking tracking content can help sites load faster, but some buttons, forms, and login fields might not work.
Turbo Mode	Noun. A firefox for fire tv and rocket term describing a mode that speeds up browsing by suppressing ad trackers. functionally, this is similar to tracking protection, but the focus here is on increasing speed. "turbo" implies a little boost in performance (think of this as a turbo on car engines). E.g. Enable turbo mode for faster browsing.
unencrypted	Adjective. Not encrypted, and thus more vulnerable to unauthorized access. note that "encoded" and "encrypted" are not synonyms (see definition for "encoded"). E.g. Your email and authentication are sent unencrypted so your password and your message could easily be read by other people.
unresponsive	Adjective. Not reacting or responding. E.g. A script from the extension is running on this page, and making it unresponsive.
unsafe	Adjective. Lacking in security or safety; potentially causing harm or damage. E.g. Disabling the safe browsing feature is not recommended as it may result in you going to unsafe sites.
validate	Verb. To check or prove the validity or accuracy of (something). E.g. Validate cache manifest.
validity	Noun. The state of being valid, authentic or genuine. E.g. Query ocsp responder servers to confirm the current validity of certificates.
version	Noun. Technically refers to the number of a particular firefox release. can also be used interchangeably with "release." "release" does not have a good equivalent in languages other english and so "version" must be used in some cases. use "version" (sentence case, not title case) as a generic, stand-alone term: "you are using the latest version of firefox." avoid referring to the numerical marker of that version ("firefox nightly 66.0a1") as this is too technical and unnecessarily detailed for users. nghtly builds have the same version number for 6 weeks at a time so the version number itself is not specific. E.g. This policy is only available on the extended support release (esr) version.
Web Authentication	Noun. A credential management tool that allows users to verify identity using an authenticator—such as a phone, hardware security keys, or tpm (trusted platform model) devices—in place of traditional passwords. web authentication (or “webauthn”) is built directly into a web browser. E.g. Open web authentication panel.
